Do you agree with the idea that the grant giving
agency should be primarily located in
Washington?
I hadn't thought about their location, but I think
I think if I had to make a judgment, I would say yes.
They should all be in Washington. Well, again, the
general feelings of many oceanographers is that
there ought to be multiple agency granting in
Washington, D.C. itself, because that's close to
the heartbeat of Congress.
Would you accept that idea, that it's necessary to
be close to the seat of power, if I may use that word?
Well, I suppose it helps you when it comes time to
testify before Congress. But I don't think it's
the key issue. To me, the key issue is that if all of
the granting agencies are in Washington, they can
work better together to support each other and
their cause on the Hill and the research
scientists. I think if you're way out in another
part of the country, even though the flying time is
short, you begin to lose awareness of what other
agencies are doing and where the gaps are from a
management point of view and where the
opportunities are. How much interchange would
you have with ONR, for example, on a grant? Well, we
have a lot of interchange with them. They invite us
to all of their site visits, and where possible,
all of our program managers participate. We can't
do it all because it's a very heavy travel
schedule. They participate in our proposal
review panel meetings. In general, we have a great
deal of interaction
with them. Our closest contact in the past has been
with them.
Do you agree with the idea that the grant giving
agency should be primarily located in
Washington?
I hadn't thought about their location, but I think
I think if I had to make a judgment, I would say yes.
They should all be in Washington. Well, again, the
general feelings of many oceanographers is that
there ought to be multiple agency granting in
Washington, D.C. itself, because that's close to
the heartbeat of Congress.
Would you accept that idea, that it's necessary to
be close to the seat of power, if I may use that word?
Well, I suppose it helps you when it comes time to
testify before Congress. But I don't think
it's the key issue. To me, the key issue is that if
all of the granting agencies are in Washington,
they can work better together to support each
other and their cause on the Hill and the research
scientists. way out in another part of the
country, even though the flying time is short, you
begin to lose awareness of what other agencies are
doing and where the gaps are from a management
point of view and where the opportunities are. How
much interchange would you have with ONR, for
example, on a grant? We have a lot of interchange
with them. They invite us to all of their site
visits. And where possible, all of our program
managers participate. You can't do it all because
it's a very heavy travel schedule. They
participate in our proposal review panel
meetings. In general, we have a great deal of
interaction with them. Our closest contact in the
past has been with ONR. partly because some of us
came from ONR and we knew the people who were there,
partly because they're right here in town, and
partly because we support the same people.
We had some coordinating committee set up between
us and ONR when they were at NRL. Now that they're in
Mississippi, we don't have any arrangements. And
we really need to set up. some arrangements in a
formal way just to make sure that we do something
periodically. If you don't have what says I've got
to get together with ONR on a certain day and talk
about things, you never get together with them
unless they're passing through town. I haven't
been to Mississippi since 1970
or something like this. And so I think
communication between the funding agencies is
very important. I think we could do a better job if
we knew what EPA was doing. But we don't know what
EPA is doing. And it's very hard to find out. It's so
hard to find out that
we don't even bother, which is kind of a sad
commentary.
My impression is that more and more agencies are
going to be funding projects dealing in and around
with oceanography and the atmosphere. rather
than fewer. Do you think there's any likelihood of
any simple direction? But it does people like
Gordon Lill who argue for simple direction
maintain that that would bring in more
cooperation from one of
these agencies.
I'm really not sure about that. I've never seen
central coordination, at least thus far, work in
the federal government. I suppose if there were an
oceanographic czar, it would work. But I'm not
sure that's healthy for oceanography. So I guess
I'm not overly enthusiastic about central
coordination. This was done, I believe, when the
Weather Bureau was established. And for a while, I
guess it was pretty nice. All the weather bureau
activities were located in one place, and they
served all the agencies and met their needs. But it
didn't take long before some of the agencies had
needs that could not be met by this group, like
maybe the Department of Agriculture or FAA.
And so pretty soon, these other agencies were
establishing their own meteorological programs
to meet their own needs. And I think it's a natural
state of government. If an agency needs a basic
research component, it should be allowed to have
it. If it needs a mission-oriented research
component, it should be allowed to have it. It
should have to justify it, of course, but at least
the responsibility for doing the work that that
agency wants doing lies on its own shoulders
instead of on some other agency over here which has
its own fish to fry.
And I take it you'd be opposed to the so-called
czarist approach to oceanography? I would be,
yeah. It's almost as if oceanography is on the
verge of, let me say, another breakthrough in
funding.
Some people argue that the IGY created a massive
funding program for oceanography, and they're
very optimistic demands of cleaning up the
environment will create one for them. Is this the
way you perceive it, having worked and going to
work?
I'm not sure that it's about to have a breakthrough
in funding.
I think the problem in the past has been that in
spite of the fact that the advocacy group for
oceanography has not been very large, it has been
vocal enough so that oceanography has fared
reasonably well in the scientific field.
programs of the agencies. I think now that the
number of advocates is increasing at a great rate.
We're going to exploit the outer continental
shells. We're going to face the problem more and
more of waste disposal. We're going to have power
plant siting. The whole thing has made a large
number of people aware of the oceans and the fact
that the oceans are important, and this never
existed before. So, you know, if the number of
advocates has any impact on the funding, then I'd
say we should have a funding breakthrough within
the next five years or so. But I'm not sure whether
or not. Any particular politicians you'd like to
cite for aiding funding in oceanography?
Oh, yeah, sure. I think Miller of California was a
strong supporter. I think Jackson of Washington,
before he got into other things, was a strong
supporter. And his staff was. Certainly Hollings
has been. And
Pell, who has had a strong impact on the
establishment of the Sea Grant program.
And those are the ones that stand out in my mind. I'm
not a great politician, so I don't keep track of it
too well.
When Sea Grant was established, what sort of
reaction did you go through? What kind of contact
did you have with the establishment of Sea Grant?
I didn't have any contact with the establishment
of Sea Grant.
I didn't really have a reaction. I have a very slow
reaction time to some of these things. And
it took me several years to get concerned about
whether it grew. or collapsed or did anything else
because we were busy with our own program. I have
been convinced for the past four or five years,
though, that it's a very important program and
that it needs to expand and needs to take an
appropriate place
in the same way the Department of Agriculture did.
in those states that border the oceans and need to
deal effectively with the oceans. So I'm a very
strong supporter of the Sea Grant program. Well,
both the previous questions I was trying to pose in
terms of multiplicity of funding is that can you
think of anything like another program like Sea
Grant or something that would interest other
congressmen towards oceanography that should be
done?
Or do we have enough agencies?
Enough interest in Congress.
Oh, I don't think you can have too many interests at
Congress.
There are some problems. Some of the problems that
I mentioned earlier could stand a strong
leadership from but not necessarily in a new
agency, but in one of the existing agencies. I
think the marine pollution program is one that is
just drifting. NOAA has a responsibility for
monitoring. I think for the first time last year,
it got some money to set up a monitoring scheme.
There is no, EPA has so many problems on the
continent and in freshwater that it's concerned
about saltwater is negligible. There just isn't
anybody who has both the concern and the resources
to do anything about marine pollution
monitoring. And I think, you know, I think NOAA
could do it if Congress had given the mandate and
the money in a stronger term.
The exploitation following the Iron Continental
Shelf is so difficult that I don't have any
recommended procedure for tackling it. BLM has an
absolutely impossible chore, and they're
getting pinged on from anybody that you want to
mention. There's nobody that they've been able to
make happy. And I'm not sure they can make anybody
happy. So they're under fire, and they've got a
tremendous big program in terms of dollars.
I think someone should turn the management of that
thing upside down. But I don't think it's in the
technical direction of it. I think it's in the way
that the Department of Interior chooses to
negotiate these contracts for baseline studies
and this sort of thing.
Maybe it's the only way they know, but I think it
could stand a good shakeup. I think that's a big
part of the
problem. I don't know about the deep sea
exploitation. I think it's still a decade or two
away. And in
large measure, the problems are more political
than technical, scientific. Let me pose the
question another way. Other people maintain just
as vigorously that with rapidly rising
inflation, that funding for hard science
projects will become less in the future rather
than more. Do you have, I know that that's
obviously something we all oppose, but do you hear
any rumors of this sort? Any feelings that this may
have?
No, it's certainly something to be concerned
about. And
it's certainly going to cut back on the
expansion of hard sciences.
Well, I don't get any signals that we're in for a
disastrous cutback. in the hard science support,
at least in NSF and as far as I know, anywhere else.